.. _upgrade:

Upgrading from previous versions
================================

The current release series of django-contact-form is the 2.x series, which is
not backwards-compatible with the django-contact-form 1.x release series.


Changes between django-contact-form 1.x and 2.x
-----------------------------------------------

Module renaming
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prior to 2.x, django-contact-form installed a Python module named
``contact_form``. To avoid silent incompatibilities, and to conform to more
recent best practices, django-contact-form 2.x now installs a module named
``django_contact_form``. Attempts to import from the ``contact_form`` module
will immediately fail with :exc:`ImportError`.

Many installations will be able to adapt by replacing references to
``contact_form`` with references to ``django_contact_form``.


Template directory renamed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Similar to the module renaming above, the name of the default directory in
which django-contact-form looks for templates has changed from
``contact_form/`` to ``django_contact_form/``.

.. _renamed-get-context:

Method renamed: ``get_context()`` -> ``get_message_context()``
``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

Prior to 2.x, :class:`~django_contact_form.forms.ContactForm` provided a method
named `get_context()` which was used to generate the template context from
which the message would be rendered. However, Django 4.0 introduced `a new
template-based system for rendering forms
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/releases/4.0/#template-based-form-rendering>`_,
and as a result :class:`django.forms.Form` now has a method named
:meth:`~django.forms.Form.get_context`.

To resolve this conflict with Django's own base form class, the method in
django-contact-form has been renamed to
:meth:`~django_contact_form.forms.ContactForm.get_message_context`, which
hopefully will not be adopted by any future version of Django's own forms
system.

If you were previously overriding ``get_context()``, you should rename your
overridden method to
:meth:`~django_contact_form.forms.ContactForm.get_message_context` to ensure it
is still called properly. If you have other code which called
``get_context()``, you should update any such references to call
:meth:`~django_contact_form.forms.ContactForm.get_message_context` instead.
